# Project with Playwright-BDD, TypeScript, Cukes, POM, Gherkin

## About the project

This is a **work in progress** project that uses [playwright-bdd](https://github.com/vitalets/playwright-bdd) to run BDD tests.

It has a few sample automated tests for a [demo website](https://opensource-demo.orangehrmlive.com/). The aim is not to cover 100% of the functionality in these tests. The coverage is minimal. The aim is to create a scalable, maintainable and robust test project in Playwright, Cucumber, TypeScript and Gherkin adopting playwright-bdd and page object model using some best practices.

#### Important Note:

* Some tests fail if the owners of the demo Orange HRM website change or remove the functionality, items in the left side panel, GUI elements on the pages, API end-points, etc.
* The project uses a non-existent `staging` environment to showcase environment switching capabilities.


## Project Setup

#### Prerequisites:

* Git
* VS Code (or another IDE)
* Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager)
* nvm (Node Version Manager)

#### Steps:
1. Clone the project to your local machine
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/vvr-hub/playwright-bdd-example.git
   ```
2. Change directory to `playwright-bdd-cukes-ts-hr`
   ```
   cd playwright-bdd-cukes-ts-hr
   ```
3. Install dependencies
   ```
   npm install
   ```
4. Install browsers
   ```
   npx playwright install
   ```

## Setting the Test Environment and Running Tests

#### Important Note:

* These commands are for **Zsh** (Z Shell).
* Modify the commands for other shells (e.g., PowerShell).

#### Setting Environment:

* To set the target environment to staging environment
    ```
    export NODE_ENV=staging
    ```
* To set the target environment to prod environment
    ```
    export NODE_ENV=prod
    ```
* To see which environment is set
    ```
    echo $NODE_ENV
    ```

#### Running Tests:

* To run a specific script from package.json
    ```
    npm run <script-name>
    ```
Example (running all tests in production, parallel and headless):
    ```
    npm run prod:all:parallel:headless
    ```
Please refer to the **scripts** section in `package.json` file for a variety of commands to run Playwright Tests, headed, headless, parallel, target browser, specific environment, smoke tests, regression tests, etc

* To run a specific Test Suite (e.g., EmployeeManagement):
    ```
    NODE_ENV=prod npx bddgen --tags "@EmployeeManagement" && NODE_ENV=prod npx playwright test --headed
    ```
* To run a specific Test (e.g., Test-3):
    ```
    NODE_ENV=prod  && npx bddgen --tags "@Test-3" && NODE_ENV=prod npx playwright test --headed
    ```

#### Viewing Reports:

* Run
    ```
    npx playwright show-report
    ```
* Then open the following url in your browser

    `localhost:9323`

## About the project structure
Below are details about some of the key folders and files in the project:




* `features/` - Business-friendly Tests in BDD format written in Gherkin.

* `stepDefinitions/` - Steps which invoke the respectivepage functions.

* `pages/` - Implements the actions or checks performed on each page within the web application. These functions are reusable.

* `pageElements/` - Page-wise UI elements used by functions in the `pages` folder.

* `constants/` - Includes constants such as API end-points that are called behind the scenes while performing tests on the application.

* `models/` - Defines Enums and Types related to the web application. Not all may be used currently.

* `utils/` - Contains (potentially) reusable utility functions, such as date formatting, picking values from enums, etc. These functions are not specific to the application's functionality but support testing.

* `envConfig.ts` - Manages environment-specific configurations (e.g., base URL, login credentials).

* `playwright.config.ts` - Contains Playwright settings (timeouts, parallelisation, viewport, retries, screenshots, trace, etc), browser and platform coverage

* `package.json` - Defines project dependencies (libraries) and includes scripts for setting environments and running tests.

* `playwright-report` - Stores test reports generated by Playwright.

* `pageIndex.ts` and `fixtures.ts` - Provided by the playwright-bdd framework
The individual Page Object Models (POMs) defined in separate pages in the pages folder are imported in pageIndex.ts file. It then re-exports them from this single access point (Centralised Exports). The fixtures.ts file imports all POMs from pageIndex.ts file, instantiates them and provides the (reusable) instances to step definitions.


## Acknowledgement and Thanks
- **Vitalets playwright-bdd example** project has been very useful in creating this project
- The demo website for **Orange HR Management web application** has been very useful for writing sample tests in this project

